Kce 60 create annex to chapter 1 of kpsr tutorial which shows differences in behaviour by pub sub arguments (#36)
klepsydra-technologies/kpsr-tutorial: tutorials/chapter1_annexB.md

<p align="right">
  <img width="25%" height="25%"src="../images/klepsydra_logo.jpg">
</p>

# Chapter 1 - Annex B: Publisher and subscriber arguments

## Example B1: Concurrent publisher and slow listener

> The publisher, just after the message sending, modifies the message values. In the meanwhile, the listerner takes a long time (similated by a 1 second sleep) to process its own _copy_ of the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The publisher thread, just after the message has been published, modifies the message values. In the meanwhile, the listener takes a long time (similated by a 1 second sleep) to process its own _copy_ of the message.
```

</p>

## Example B2: Adding the smart loop

This example shares most of the code with example B1:

```diff
- const int poolSize{0};
+ const int poolSize{8};
```

```C++
    kpsrPublisher = eventLoop.getPublisher<TestEvent>("TestEvent",
                                                      poolSize,
                                                      initializerFunction,
                                                      eventClonerFunction);
```

Any non-zero pool size when getting the publisher enables the Klepsydra smart pool: this is a memory allocation that improves the publish efficiency. See the [Smart Memory Pool](./chapter1.md#smart-memory-pool) on the main tutorial for additional details.

### Sample output

These are the main differences compared with example B1:

```text
$ bin/kpsr_tutorial_chapter1_annexB_2

Invocations counters updating after getPublisher
        emptyConstructorInvocations 8
Invocations counters updating after publishing
        constructorInvocations      3
        destructorInvocations       3
Invocations counters updating after slow listeners finished
        (none)
```

**Threads.**

> Same 3 threads than in the previous example: main, publisher, an listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Same 3 threads as in the previous example: main, publisher, an listener.
```

**TestEvent constructors.**

When the publisher are created:

- 8x `emptyConstructorInvocations`: the smart memory pool are populated at the selected size.

Just after the publishing:

- same 3x `constructorInvocations` and 3x `destructorInvocations` but,
- 0x `copyInvocations`, because listener data was aready allocated at the 8x pool.
Go to example B5 and B6 to study a smaller pool.

When the listeners finish,

> - `destructorInvocations` keeps the same, only the pool needs to be freed.

Reviewer: the pool is freed when the destructor of the publisher is called. you can verify this by putting everything inside an unnnamed namespace
```
int main (... ) 
{
   { 
   /// original code here
   }
   printInvocations();
   return 0;
}
```

<p align="center">
constructorInvocations = destructorInvocations
</p>

## Example B3: Adding an initializer

One step further example B2:

```diff
- const auto initializerFunction{nullptr};
+ const auto initializerFunction{[](TestEvent &event) { event.init(); }};
```

```C++
    kpsrPublisher = eventLoop.getPublisher<TestEvent>("TestEvent",
                                                      poolSize,
                                                      initializerFunction,
                                                      eventClonerFunction);
```

> The `init()` function allocates the required object memory. As explained in [Smart Memory Pool](./chapter1.md#smart-memory-pool), this prevents the memory allocation on every publish event, increasing the application performance.

Reviewer: The smart pool allocates the memory and the `initializerFunction` function can be used to perform any additional initialization step that is required by the `TestEvent` class. For example, an `std::vector` could be resized to its desired size. In this example, we have a dummy `init` function that only counts the number of invocations.

### Sample output

Differences with example B2:

```text
$ bin/kpsr_tutorial_chapter1_annexB_3

Invocations counters updating after getPublisher
        emptyConstructorInvocations 8
        initInvocations             8
```

**TestEvent constructors.**

When the publisher are created:

- 8x `emptyConstructorInvocations`: the smart memory pool are populated as before and,
- 8x `initInvocations`, every object is initialized to allocate its required memory.

## Example B4: Adding a cloner

One additional step from example B3:

```diff
- const auto eventClonerFunction{nullptr};
+ const auto eventClonerFunction{[](const TestEvent &src, TestEvent &dst) { dst = TestEvent(src); }};
```

```C++
    kpsrPublisher = eventLoop.getPublisher<TestEvent>("TestEvent",
                                                      poolSize,
                                                      initializerFunction,
                                                      eventClonerFunction);
```

> Klepsydra, by default, copy the publisher objects to the subscriber with the equal (=) operator. This makes a copy _by value_ for simple objects an vectors, but not for heavy or complex data structures such as images or `cv::Mat`.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Klepsydra, by default, copy the publisher objects to the subscriber with the equal (=) operator. This makes a copy _by value_ for simple objects a vectors, but not for complex data structures such as `cv::Mat`. 
```
In general, if the custom class has a operator `=` which can do deep copies, then eventCloner would not be needed.

> If your concurrent application could update the data while the listener is running, provide a cloner function to prevent undesired effects. The copy constructor at `include/test_event.h` performs this operation (although not required for this simple object).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the data you are publishing needs a different operation for deep copies, provide a cloner function to prevent undesired effects. In this example, the copy constructor at `include/test_event.h` performs this operation (although not required for this simple object).
```

<p align="right">
  <img width="25%" height="25%"src="../images/klepsydra_logo.jpg">
</p>

# Chapter 1 - Annex B: Publisher and subscriber arguments

> 

Reviewer 2: I suggest to add a Table of Contents (like in this file, for example: https://github.com/klepsydra-technologies/kpsr-tutorial/pull/35/files#diff-0946029d7f66bbd1fbb9a8f4473729200780611c9fadd038b964cab8cdf53814R7)

<p align="right">
  <img width="25%" height="25%"src="../images/klepsydra_logo.jpg">
</p>

# Chapter 1 - Annex B: Publisher and subscriber arguments

- [Example B1a: Concurrent publisher and slow listener](#example-b1a-concurrent-publisher-and-slow-listener)
  - [Source code](#source-code)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output)
- [Example B1b: Publishing by reference](#example-b1b-publishing-by-reference)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-1)
- [Example B1c: Adding the smart loop](#example-b1c-adding-the-smart-loop)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-2)
- [Example B1d: Adding an initializer](#example-b1d-adding-an-initializer)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-3)
- [Example B1e: Adding a cloner](#example-b1e-adding-a-cloner)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-4)
- [Example B2a: Small pool size](#example-b2a-small-pool-size)
  - [Source code](#source-code-1)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-5)
- [Example B2b: Small buffer size](#example-b2b-small-buffer-size)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-6)
- [Example B3: Data multiplexer](#example-b3-data-multiplexer)
  - [Source code](#source-code-2)
  - [Sample output](#sample-output-7)

> 

Reviewer 2: Some small comments:
- For uniformity, I suggest to do the Table of Contents as an ordered list because all the other documents will be using it (see .md files changes in the PR https://github.com/klepsydra-technologies/kpsr-tutorial/pull/35/files)
- I found that to do nested lists it is recommended to use 4 spaces (e.g.: https://itsfoss.com/markdown-nested-lists/ and https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37575916/how-to-markdown-nested-list-items-in-bitbucket)
- It would be nice to have an Introduction section

<p align="right">
  <img width="25%" height="25%"src="../images/klepsydra_logo.jpg">
</p>

# Chapter 1 - Annex B: Publisher and subscriber arguments

> - [Example B1a: Concurrent publisher and slow listener](#example-b1a-concurrent-publisher-and-slow-listener)

Reviewer 2: "## Table of contents" missing.

```

Any non-zero pool size when getting the publisher enables the Klepsydra smart pool: this is a memory allocation that improves publish efficiency. See the [Smart Memory Pool](./chapter1.md#smart-memory-pool) on the main tutorial for additional details.

### Sample output

These are the main differences compared with example B1a:

```text
$ bin/kpsr_tutorial_chapter1_annexB_1c

Invocations counters updating after getPublisher
        emptyConstructorInvocations 8
Invocations counters updating after publishing
        constructorInvocations      3
        destructorInvocations       3
Invocations counters updating after slow listeners finished
        (none)
Invocations counters updating after program finished
        destructorInvocations       11
```

**Threads.**

Same 3 threads as in the previous example: main, publisher, and listener.

**TestEvent constructors.**

When the publisher is created:

- 8x `emptyConstructorInvocations`: the smart memory pool are populated at the selected size.

Just after the publishing:

- same 3x `constructorInvocations` and 3x `destructorInvocations` but,
- 0x `copyInvocations`, because listener data was already allocated at the 8x pool.

> Go to examples B5 and B6 to study a smaller pool.

Reviewer: I think B5 and B6 should be named B2a and B2b?
